---
title: Status Bar
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Status Bar

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/GVS02_01"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/GVS02_03</a></div>

> >

The status bar is another place where you can find some features related to Git and Github. You can manage branches, or perform actions related to refs

---
## Status Bar

> >

The status bar is the small thin line at the bottom of Visual Studio Code. It has a couple of places that you can use for some Git related commands.

The first and most obvious is the branch menu on the bottom left hand side. Clicking on it will pull up a menu at the top of the screen.

You'll see the local as well as the remote branches that have been pulled from your remote repositories. It also has some additional commands you can call up.

This is usually the best place to find which branch I'm on while I'm working on a project and it's also a great way to pull branches from remote repositories.

Right next to that is a quick shortcut to synchronize your local changes with your remote changes. It will pull and push commits and as usual it gives you an option to just do this without having to go through the popup.

There's a few other things that are also pretty useful in the Status bar. One that I use a lot is the notifications icon all the way to the right.

Visual Studio Code will often give you a lot of notifications that will go away after a while and sometimes they go away while you're thinking about what to do, so this is a great place to take a peek at them and bring them back.