---
title: Command Palette
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Command Palette

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/GVS02_01"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/GVS02_02</a></div>

> >

Another common way to get to Git commands is through the command palette. Once you access that menu, you'll be able to perform just about any git or GitHub command you may need. A lot of other features use this command to execute.

---
## Command Palette

> >

## Superior Commit

If you pull up the command palette you'll see a list of all of the commands you can use with Visual Studio Code.

If you type Git, you can see the list of Git Commands. At first, it might not seem like this is any better than typing it in the terminal. Let's try out some things that are common.

I want to create a new branch. Normally, I'd go to the terminal and I'm used to typing git checkout -b and I know that theres is a new command I'm supposed to be using called git switch -c, but I always forget. You know what's even easier, to just use the command palette to create a new branch.

Open the command palette and type in any part of `Git Create Branch`

Now Give it a Name. I'm going type in `XXXXX Changes`. Notice this command is real smart so if you try to give it a name with spaces, it just gives you a reasonable equivalent.

Lets go ahead and change this name to something more reasonable `Git Rename Branch`, then change the name.

The Command palette doesn't have every git command, but it usually does something to make them easier to work with. For example, I often want to just commit everything I've worked on so far. If you've made changes to files and you don't commit, it just asks you if you want to automatically stage files.

These are some real timesavers.

When you issue a git commit, you get a more interactive commit.