---
title: Source Control
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Source Control

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/GVS02_01"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/GVS03_02</a></div>

> >

Besides the built in options for staging and committing, the source control panel gives you plenty of options for other git commands.

---
## Source Control

> >

In the Activity Bar, you can find the Source Control panel.

The other place where you can get all of this done is the Source Control Panel.

You can hit the plus button to stage an individual file.

Once you stage changes, you can see that they become available for unstaging, which sets things back to the way they used to be.

If you were working on multiple files, there are icons to Under `Staged Changes` and `Changes` to discard all changes as well as add all changes.


There is are icons next to each file where you can click on to open the file.

More importantly, if you just click on the file it opens up DIFF view, which lets you see the differences between the two files.

To commit a file, you can enter a message and hit the commit buttons

You can see several icons at the top where you can control how the commits are displayed either as a list or more of a file tree view.

You can also commit directly from this little checkbox at the top.

With the next tool, you can initiate a pull request.

The little refresh icon brings things back up to date just in case something happened somewhere else.

You then have an option here with just about every other Git Command.

The panel itself is divided into different parts. One that's normally hidden is the Source Control repositories. That can let you look at the origin of this commit.

You can see the branch option here and if you click on that see the list of branches. This is a good place to create branches if you want to.

Next to that is a place where you can do a push and pull of your repository.

There's another place to commit using the checkmark.

You can also refresh the view right here. Finally, it shows you the amount of items that can update.

The dropdown really gives you quick access to just about every type of git command you'll need.

The different little icons really help you so if you see a dropdown icon like in the commit button you now that it has a few extra options.

Between the command palette and the Source Control panel, you might never need to look at a terminal when doing git commands again.