---
title: Diffing
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Diffing

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/GVS02_01"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/GVS03_03</a></div>

> >

Diffing is one of the most useful tools in Git, Visual Studio Code makes it...visual, which is a MUCH better ways to analyze and compare the differences between your code histories.

---
## Diffing

> >
There's a number of places where you can get to Diffs. If you've been following along, you know that you can get to a quick diff for the current document by clicking on the gutter bars. The items in red are for deletions, the green ones are for additions.

You can see the arrows for moving around the document and looking at the previous and next changes.

You may notice that as soon as you make a change on any file, you'll see an additional icon on the top right where you can view changes.

You can go back to the file by clicking another icon at the top. 

If you don't like the side by side view, you can switch from the ... dropdown to an inline view from here.

The other place is of course the Source Control panel, where you can click on the file you want to compare. This gives you a side by side view of the file.

Interestingly enough, you can work on the right side of the screen making changes while still seeing the diffs.

You can also use the file manager to compare two different files manually. Right click on a file and choose select for comparing, then choose another file, right click and choose compare with selected. You can also just control click on a couple of files and right click to compare the two.

This is great for working with files that are close to each other.

There's even an option in the command palette: Just type in compare and see some of the additional options including compare active file with, which gives you a file list you can filter.

Another cool tool for diffing is the timeline. It gives you a historical view of the differences in files over time and lets you jump into a view of the differences in your files over time.

This gives you the history of the project in Git, but also a local version of your changes to the document over time that is not dependent on Git. That means you can filter by just the changes you've added to the git history or anything that the app is doing.
