---
title: Project Setup
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Project Setup

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/GVS01_03"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/GVS01_02</a></div>

> >

Wether you're using the built-in terminal in Visual Studio Code or an external terminal, we'll need some code to try things out and if you have a mac I'll show you how to install an extra command.

---

# Installations
---
# Clean Repo
- [Degit](https://github.com/Rich-Harris/degit)
- [Scrolling Parallax](https://github.com/LinkedInLearning/css-scrolling-parallax-2835103)

```sh
cd ~/Desktop
npx degit LinkedInLearning/css-scrolling-parallax-2835103.git vscodegit
cd vscodegit                                    
git init
git add .
git commit -m "First Commit"
```
> >

This is one course where you probably want to use your own repository, but if you want to use [one of ours](https://github.com/LinkedInLearning/css-scrolling-parallax-2835103), let me show you how to get a clean repository with no history.

I like to use a tool called degit from Rich Harris. Degit lets you clone a repository with no history. It assumes you're using GitHub, but you can also use other hosts, get specific branches. It's really powerful.

You should try this with one of your own repositories.

I'm going to use hyper, which is a great cross platform terminal, we'll get into the VSCode terminal soon enough.

What I'm doing here is switching to the desktop, then asking npx to temporarily install degit and find a repository in the LinkedIn Learning account called css-scrolling-parallax and clone it into a folder called vscodegit.

We'll need to initialize that repository with Git, so we'll switch to that folder, then we'll issue the `git init` command.

---

# MacOS Code Command

- `View:Command Palette`
- Type in `Shell`
- Install `code` command

> >


# Script
If you're on a mac, adding the code command makes it easy to use VSCode from within my other terminals.

You can easily get to the command by going to the view menu and choosing the Command Palette option. You can also check out the shortcut for your OS here.

Type in shell, then choose the Install code command option.

Now you can go to any terminal and pull up the contents of a Folder in Visual Studio Code by issuing the code command.

