---
title: Useful Extensions
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Useful Additions

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/GVS02_01"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/GVS01_03</a></div>

> >

There's a couple of optimal additions you can make to help you work with Git and GitHub. They let you take care of things that would normally require a trip to the Github.com website. These were developed by GitHub and they're something you may not be aware of.

---

# Useful Additions

- [GitHub Pull Requests and Issues](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.vscode-pull-request-github)
- [GitHub Repositories](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.remotehub)
- [GitHub CodeSpaces](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.codespaces)
- [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/)

> >

## GitHub Pull Requests and Issues
This extension allows you to review and manage GitHub pull requests and issues in Visual Studio Code. Once you install it, you'll get an additional GitHub icon on your activity bar.

Clicking on that lets you take a look at the pull requests for the current project. This is real nice for a multi-user environment where you're working with others to get work done.

## GitHub Repositories
This extensions is on pre-release, but it lets you edit content that's on GitHub directly on Visual Studio code. Once again it saves you a trip to the website and can be real useful if all you want to do is edit a file like your README or other simple Document.

## GitHub CodeSpaces
If you want full control of your repositories, you can install the GitHub CodeSpaces extensions. This gives you access to your repositories, but lets you use your local machine's CPU for editing, as opposed to having to pay for storate when using a Cloud CPU.

## GitHub CLI
There is one more potential addition for you to consider. This is the GitHub CLI. Once again, it gives you access to most of the things you can do on the github.com website, through your terminal. 

I think the visual tools inside Visual Studio Code are a bit better than terminal tools for some things like pull request, this does open things up for automation.