---
title: Built-in Terminals
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Built-in Terminals

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/GVS02_01"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/GVS02_01</a></div>

> >

Terminals are one of the best ways of working with git in Visual Studio Code, let's talk a bit about how to control and set up your terminal for working with Git.

---
## Menus

> >

# View Menu
The terminal commands are all over the place in Visual Studio Code. So, for example you can go to the View menu and show or hide the current terminal. It's a good idea to learn that shortcut, by the way.

# Terminal Menu
There is also a terminal menu and you can see how to create a new `New Terminal`, you can see the shortcut is similar to showing or hiding the terminal.

# Terminal Panel
Terminals normally appear as a panel at the bottom of the screen. Most of the available commands will be at the top right of the screen. There is a button to close the terminal, dock the terminal to the top of the editor, delete the current terminal, do a split terminal or add a terminal. There are also two submenus there where you can control many terminal options.

The submenus have some interesting options, so for example, you can change the color or the icon being used for the terminal to let you know that the terminal.

# Split Terminal

The option here to do a split terminal is interesting. Instead of adding a separate tab, you get a side by side terminal, which is great if you want to . I think the easiest way to do that is by clicking on the icon next to the current terminal, but you can find options everywhere else.

# Repositioning
This isn't specific to terminals, but VSCode is extremely customizable, so you can move any panels, or even tabs in your panels, so it's easy enough to take our terminal if put it on the side.

Try this out: Let's go ahead and customize our terminal so that we know which one is for our Live tab as well as our GitHub tab.
