---
title: Explorer/Editor
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Explorer/Editor

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/GVS02_01"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/GVS02_04</a></div>

> >

The explorer and the editor give you some additional features that you can easily get to. The Explorer is the first item in the Activity Bar and first appears to the left of the editor.

---
# Explorer/Editor

> >

Let's make sure that our Activity bar is showing. I sometimes hide it so I can get maximum screen width. Go to the View:Appearance:Activity Bar.

## Explorer

The Explorer is what looks like a file view, where you can see the files that are in your current project. You can see a few hints regarding the files.

If you see a file with a U next to it, that's an untracked file. That's a file that's been created, but has not been added into Git.

If you see an A next to the file. That file has been added or staged, but not yet committed as a change.

An M means the file is already being tracked by Git and has been modified. Those Modifications are ready to be staged.

In the editor you can see some information in the gutter. The gutter is the area between the line numbers if they're showing...to the left of the text.

If you see a green line, those are new lines that have been added to your document.

A blue line means a change on a current line.

A small red triangle, it means you've deleted something there.

The cool thing about this area is that it's interactive, so you can click on those bars or the triangle to open up the DIFF view. That makes it easier to roll things back.

From this view, you can stage an individual line by line change, revert it back and navigate through all the changes in the current document.