---
title: Git Lens
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Git Lens

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/GVS02_01"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/GVS04_03</a></div>

> >

Git Lens is the most popular extension for Visual Studio code that gives you a kitchen sink worth of options to give you a better understanding of your git projects.

---
## Git Lens

> >

Let's install the extension...make sure you've removed other extensions like Git Graph or Git History.

This is such a huge extension that it's hard to summarize. It's been bought by GitKraken, which is a GitHub and pretty awesome on it's own right.

You can find out more about it on this site: https://gitlens.amod.io. Now, this is a free as well as a paid product. The extra features are available for all public repos, the paid upgrade lets you use those features on private repos.

Interface-wise, you get an icon on the activity bar, but this is really mostly your docs. There are a few icons at the top with quick links and descriptions of some of the fatures. 

The real features are embedded into Visual Studio interface. For example, if you click on the source control panel, you'll see that it has a way more stuff on it than before.

This is where you can do most of the work in GitLab

New sections to manage commits, branches, remotes, stashes, tags are right there.

The commits section lets you look at the history of the commits for a file and you can click on the filename to go to the diffs.

The Commit details give you some more information about that specific commit. 

One of the interesting feature is the ability to use worktrees. That's a feature  in Git that lets you work on different branches in a project at the same time.

There's a nice search feature for searching your commits in a number of different ways. 

There is an icon on the status bar so you can visualize the commits and the branches, so you can see how the different branches interact with the commits. You can search by globs, using patterns to look for things. Super powerful.

In your Status bar, you can see an additional icon for visualizing your Git Graph like in other tooks. It lets you manage different things from there.

You may have also noticed that after you install, you get these blame notices with information about who made changes and when.

You can control that on this dropdown and then turn on heatmaps to visualize which parts of your files have changed over time.

There's also an interesting visual file history view, that shows the changes to your files over time. It's pretty cool.

If you go to appearance>view>panel, you can get to it or use your command palette.

I feel like I've tried to show you the cool parts of 