---
title: Git Graph
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Git Graph

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/GVS02_01"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/GVS04_01</a></div>

> >

Git Graph is an extension that helps you look at your repositories and helps you organize your project in a more visual manner.

---
## Git Graph

> >

In this chapter, I'm going to review some of the additional extensions and tools available for Git that you might find interesting.

Let's go ahead an install our first one called Git Graph into our project to see what it does.

Git Graph gives you a new tab with the information about your project presented visually. Some people really love to see how their project flows in and out of branches in this manner.

You can see that it also gives you a real concise view of your project.

You can take a look at specific branches in your project by clicking the branches popup. Do a quick search here for branches if your list is long and show or hide remote branches.

Each line item also clickable with super detailed information about the commit. I like that clicking on the files here takes you to the diff view. 

On the top of the sidebar, there's an option to do a search, open a terminal and configure the git project. Notice that here, you have n option to have Git Graph convert issue numbers in your commit messages to hyperlinks.

You can also do a Fetch and a reload directly from here.

You can right click on a commit to do some actions with that commit. So you can easily add tags directly into the commits, create a branch based on that commit, cherry pick...all types of common tasks here.

If you click on one of the commits, you get a super detailed view of that instance.

You can see the files affected on the right. If you click on the file, it will take you to a  diff of that file

even quickly open a tab with the file at that specific commit.
